Ses initial draft review (#437)
Agoric/documentation: main/javascript-modifications/ses-guide.md

current realm into an *immutable realm*; a realm within which the primordials 
are deeply frozen. 

SES also lets programs create *Compartments*. These are "mini-realms".
A Compartment has its own dedicated global object and environment, but 
it inherits the primordials from their parent realm. Components are described
in detail in the next section. 

## Compartments
A *compartment* is an execution environment for evaluating a stranger’s code. It has
its own `globalThis` global object and wholly independent system of 
modules. Otherwise it shares the same batch of intrinsics such as `Array` with its surrounding 
compartment. The concept of a compartment implies an initial compartment, 
the initial execution environment of a realm. After lockdown, all compartments share the same 
frozen realm. 

Here we create a compartment with a `print()` function on `globalThis`.
```js
import 'ses';

const c = new Compartment({
  print: harden(console.log),
});

c.evaluate(`
  print('Hello! Hello?');
`);
```
This new compartment has a different global object than the start compartment **tyg todo: Not sure what "start compartment"

> means? The initial compartment? One from the Zoe start() method?** . The 

Reviewer: We posit that all JavaScript executes in a realm and compartment. Every realm has distinct intrinsics, whereas every compartment shares intrinsics. The initial realm and compartment are not constructed with `new Realm()` or `new Compartment()` but that’s invisible to the code running: they could just as well be running within a constructed realm or compartment. We call the one compartment in a realm that was not expressly constructed the *start compartment*. The start compartment receives some ambient authorities from the host, often access to timers and IO that are denied to other compartments. Running lockdown does not erase these powerful objects, but puts the program running in the start compartment on a footing where it is possible to carefully delegate powers to child compartments.

Other pairs of compartments also share many identical intrinsics and undeniable objects
of the realm. Each has a unique, initially mutable, global object.
```js
const c1 = new Compartment();
const c2 = new Compartment();
c1.globalThis === c2.globalThis; // false
c1.globalThis.JSON === c2.globalThis.JSON; // true
```
Every compartment's global scope includes a shallow, specialized copy of the JavaScript
intrinsics. These omit `Date.now()` and `Math.random()`
since they can be covert inter-program communication channels. 

However, a compartment may be expressly given access to these objects through
the compartment constructor's first argument or by assigning them to the 
compartment's `globalThis` after construction.
```js
const powerfulCompartment = new Compartment({ Math });
powerfulCompartment.globalThis.Date = Date;
```

When you create a new `Compartment` object, you must decide if it supports OCaps security.
If it does, run `harden(compartment.globalThis)` on it before loading any untrusted code into it.

A single compartment can run a JavaScript program in the locked-down SES environment.
However, most interesting programs have multiple modules. So, each compartment also has

> its own module system. The next SES release will include support for ECMAScript modules,
> **tyg todo: Has this happened already? If not, is there an ETA?**
> a relatively new system supported by many browsers, and officially released in Node.js 14.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its own module system. SES version 0.8.0 adds support for ECMAScript modules,
a relatively new system supported by many browsers, and officially released in Node.js 14.
```

Compartments can be linked, so one compartment can export a module that another compartment
imports. Each compartment may have its own rules for how to resolve import specifiers and 
how to locate and retrieve modules. In this example, we use the compartment constructor to 
create two compartments: one for the application and another for its dependency.

> **tyg todo: Will people understand this code or do we need to explain any/all methods in it
> in more detail**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `resolveHook` is synchronous and determines how to compute the full module specifier for a partially resolved module specifier in ESM source text, like `import "./even.js"` as it appears in `./math/odd.js` corresponds to `./math/even.js` in a Node.js program.
The `importHook` is asynchronous and responsible for for locating, retrieving, and parsing modules. Retrieving is getting the source text from the web, archive, or database based on its location. Converting a module specifier to a location is an internal concern of the `importHook` and the particular storage medium for the module texts but should generally be a URL and may appear in stack traces. The `importHook` may use the `ModuleStaticRecord` constructor to create a reusable, parsed representation of the module text.
```

# SES Guide

> This document is a guide to understanding *SES (Secure ECMAScript)*. In addition

Author: I'm afraid it is needed. Kate's mentioned that there's been feedback about duplication in the doc set. The problem is that the same person is likely to be two different audiences; first, someone getting started, who'll potentially want a good grounding in detail about what's going on and why (this doc) to best really understand things. But then they'll come back three months later and just want to find out as quickly as possible what options lockdown() has (for example). And that's what the SES-Reference doc will be. So we need to have a short introduction in both the Guide and the Reference explaining what each one is about and that the other one exists and why you might want to use it instead.

> This document is a guide to understanding *SES (Secure ECMAScript)*. In addition

Author: No, this does need to be here. The problem is we've gotten feedback that some folk are bothered by duplication in the doc set. But some amount is necessary because the same person is likely to be two different audiences. When starting out, they'll hopefully want to read this, SES-Guide, which goes into detail about how and why SES is like it is to develop a good understanding of SES. But three months from now, they'll, for example, just want to quickly find what options go with lockdown(). Which is what the SES-Reference will be for; a stripped down version of the Guide with just "here's what this does and how to use it". So we need an intro paragraph in each explaining what this SES doc is for, and that the other's available if you want that version of SES documentation

to showing what you can and cannot do with a program that implements SES, it gives
background on the reasons why functionality was added or removed from JavaScript to do so.
This is intended for initial reading when starting to use or learn about Agoric. For 
a more limited description of how to use SES without much explanation, see 
the [SES Reference](./ses-reference.md).

## What is SES

SES (*Secure ECMAScript*) is a JavaScript runtime library for safely running 
third-party code inside a featherweight compartment. It addresses JavaScript’s 

> lack of security, which is particularly significant in that JavaScript applications

Author: I'm not really seeing the problem with saying JavaScript has a lack of security; isn't the point of SES to be a secure JavaScript? In this case, I'm referring to "JavaScript" as, well, what you get when you get "all" of JavaScript with SES being a subset of JavaScript with some additions not in JavaScript.  To go back to a previous language I've used, Lisp would be the whole "concept" of Lisp, but Common Lisp would be its own version of Lisp, as would Interlisp. Does anyone else have a problem with the phrasing?

> lack of security, which is particularly significant in that JavaScript applications

Author: I did add in the second paragraph (slightly reworded to tighten). The diagram's worth thinking about, but I'll have to redo it to avoid adding in the several other areas shown in it such as Jessie and JS-Strict that, currently at least, aren't being mentioned in these docs.

> lack of security, which is particularly significant in that JavaScript applications

Reviewer: Perhaps “JavaScript’s lack of internal security”. JavaScript’s claim to fame is that it runs arbitrary code off the internet safely on behalf of a user, so it would be too harsh to say security is entirely absent. It’s in a league of its own compared to C, Python, or…Node.js.

use and rely on a lot of third-party code (modules, packages, libraries, 
user-provided code for extensions and plug-ins, etc.). 

SES is a safe deterministic subset of "strict mode" JavaScript. This means 
it does not include any IO objects that provide 
[*ambient authority*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ambient_authority). SES 

> also removes non-determinism by modifying a few built-in objects. It also uses

Author: They get mentioned when we start looking at each SES aspect in depth. Specifics like that are distractions in the high level overview/intro this is meant to be.

  finishes processing. But be aware it won't run until after all *other* ready Promise callbacks execute. 

  There are two queues: the *IO queue* (accessed by `setImmediate`), and the *Promise queue* (accessed by 
  Promise resolution). SES code can only add to the Promise queue. Note that the Promise queue is 
  higher-priority than the IO queue, so the Promise queue must be empty for any IO or timers to be handled.
* `setInterval` and `setTimeout` (and `clearInterval`/`clearTimeout`): Any notion of time must come from 
  exchanging messages with external timer services (the SwingSet environment provides a `TimerService` object 
  to the bootstrap vat, which can share it with other vats)
* `global`: Is not defined. Use `globalThis` instead (and remember that it is frozen).
* `process`: Is not available, e.g. no `process.env` to access the process's environment variables, 
  or `process.argv` for the argument array.
* `URL` and `URLSearchParams`: Are not available.
* `WebAssembly`: Is not available.
* `TextEncoder` and `TextDecoder`: Are not available.

Some names look like globals, but are really part of the module-defining tools: imports, exports, and 

> metadata. Modules start as files on disk, but then are bundled together into an archive before being 

Author: Changed to "Modules start as separate files, but then...".  OK?

loaded into a vat. The bundling tool uses several standard functions to locate other modules that must 
be included. These are not a part of SES, but are allowed in module source code, and are translated or 
removed before execution. 

- `import` and `export` syntax are allowed in ESM-style modules ( preferred over CommonJS). These are 
  not globals per se, but top-level syntax that defines the module graph.
- `require`, `module`, `module.exports`, and `exports` are allowed in CommonJS-style modules, and 
  should work as expected. However, new code should be written as ESM modules. They are either 
  consumed by the bundling process, provided (in some form) by the execution environment, or 
  otherwise rewritten to work sensibly
- `__dirname` and `__filename` are not provided

> - The dynamic import expression (`await import('name')`) is currently prohibited in vat code, 

Author: Yep. Like I wrote, I need help in pulling out the non-SES changes to JS for elsewhere.

a built-in module, you have to write a *device* with an endowment with the built-in module's 
functions, then send messages to the device.

Browser environments also have a huge list of [other features](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API) 
presented as names in the global scope (some also added to Node.js). None are available in a 
SES environment. The most surprising removals include `atob`, `TextEncoder`, and `URL`.

`debugger` is a first-class JavaScript statement, and behaves as expected.

## What does SES add to standard Javascript

- `console` is available to help with debugging. Since all JavaScript implementations
  add it, you may be surprised it’s not in the official spec. So leaving it out would cause 
  too much confusion. Note that `console log`’s exact behavior is up to the host program; display 
  to the operator is not guaranteed. Also, it is difficult at best to write to `process.stdout` and
  so that should not be done.

- `lockdown()` and `harden()` both an object’s API surface (enumerable data properties). 
  A hardened object’s properties cannot be changed, so the only way to interact with a 

>   hardened object is through its methods. `harden()` is similar to `Object.freeze()` but more 

Reviewer 2: well, the properties of a hardened object are still readable.

>   powerful. See the individual [`lockdown()`](#lockdown) and [`harden()`](#harden) sections

Reviewer 2: The word "powerful" is sort of taken in this context. Perhaps "more thorough"?

  below. 

> - `HandledPromise` is also a global. 

Reviewer 2: Is `HandledPromise` part of SES? or tildot? Not by my understanding.

Are we trying to document SES or the Agoric vat code runtime environment here?

Author: Yep. This is something I was aware of with respect to the review. Some of this is from a paper of Brian's that I edited, and I'm not sure which parts were SES specific and which a different part of Agoric's development environment/platform. I figured y'all would be able to tell me which bits don't belong in the SES docs. : -)

Reviewer: Concur: `HandledPromise` is specific to the Agoric programming environment, and will also be part of the Endo programming environment, and is not SES.

  they won’t be present otherwise. If the parent compartment is metered, its child compartments 
  are always metered too. Child compartments will *not* be frozen by default: 
  see [Frozen globalThis](#frozen-globalthis) below for details.

As SES is on the JavaScript standards track, the above anticipates additional proposed standard-track 
features. If those features become standards, future JavaScript environments will include them as global 
objects. So the current SES shim also makes those global objects available.

## Realms

JavaScript code runs in the context of 
a [*Realm*](https://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/10.0/index.html#sec-code-realms). A 
realm is the set of *primordials* (objects and functions of the standard library 
like `Array.prototype.push`) and a global object. In a web browser, an iframe is a realm. 
In Node.js, a Node process is a realm.

For historical reasons, the ECMAScript specification requires the *primordials*
to be mutable (`Array.prototype.push = yourFunction` is valid ECMAScript but not 
recommended). With SES you can turn the current realm into an *immutable realm*; 

> a realm within which the primordials are deeply frozen. 

Reviewer 2: tell us how.

(preventing some man in the middle attacks). Also, no program can use these mutable
objects to pass notes to parties that haven't been expressly introduced (preventing 
some covert communication channels).

For a full explanation of `lockdown()` and its options, please see
[here](./lockdown.md).

## `harden()`

`harden()` should be called on all objects that will be transferred across a trust boundary 
The general rule is if you make a new object and give it to someone else (and don't 
immediately forget it yourself), you should give them `harden(obj)` instead of the raw object. 

After calling lockdown, the harden function ensures that every object in the transitive 
closure over property and prototype access starting with that object has been frozen by 
`Object.freeze()`. This means that the object can be passed among programs and none of 
those programs will be able to tamper with the surface of that object graph. They can 
only read the surface data and call the surface functions.

You have to harden a class before you harden any of its instances; i.e. it takes two separate 
steps to harden both a class and its instances. Harden a base class before hardening classes 

> that inherit from it. harden()` does transitive freezing by following the object’s own

Reviewer 2: missing ` here?

properties (as opposed to properties it inherited), and the objects whose own properties refer 
to them, and so forth.

When you freeze an object via `harden()`, it ensures any external callers 
can only interact with it through functions in the object’s API. `harden()` 
is an enhanced transitive version of `Object.freeze()`, which only locks up an 
object's own properties.

> All objects that are transferred across a trust boundary must have their API

Reviewer 2: Didn't we say this above, but with "should" rather than "must"?

Reviewer: I’m not well-versed at making that distinction. “should” seems appropriate since it is possible to pass unfrozen objects over a trust boundary, but “must” seems appropriate since doing so would invalidate the notion of trust over the boundary.

Author: Previous instance changed from "should" to "must".

- The only way to get a capability is by being given one. For example, by receiving
  one as an argument of a constructor or method.

Ordinary JavaScript does not fully qualify as an OCaps language due to the pervasive 
mutability of shared objects. You can construct a JavaScript subset with a 
transitively immutable environment without any unintended capabilities. Starting
in 2007 with ECMAScript 5, Agoric engineers and the OCap community have influenced
JavaScript’s evolution so a program can transform its own environment into 
this safe JavaScript environment.

As of February 2021, SES is making its way through JavaScript standards committees. 
It is expected to become an official part of JavaScript when the standards process 
is completed. Meanwhile, Agoric provides its own SES *shim* (a library providing
the needed SES features) for use in writing secure smart contracts in JavaScript 
(Several Agoric engineers are on the relevant standards committees and are responsible
for aspects of SES).

## Installation and importing

**tyg todo Not sure what the current situation is with respect to what needs to go into
what code to get and use SES in one's code**

> ## JavaScript globals and primordials

Author: Changed to "What SES does to JavaScript". OK?

others are not so obvious (`stream`). All are accessed by importing a module (`const v8 = require('v8')` 
in CommonJS modules, or `import v8 from 'v8'` in ESM modules). These modules are built out of 
native code (C++), not plain JavaScript.

None of these built-in modules are available to SES code. `require` or `import` can be used on 
pure JavaScript modules, but not on modules including native code. To exercise authority from 
a built-in module, you have to write a *device* with an endowment with the built-in module's 
functions, then send messages to the device.

Browser environments also have a huge list of [other features](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API) 
presented as names in the global scope (some also added to Node.js). None are available in a 
SES environment. The most surprising removals include `atob`, `TextEncoder`, and `URL`.

`debugger` is a first-class JavaScript statement, and behaves as expected.

## What does SES add to standard Javascript

- `console` is available to help with debugging. Since all JavaScript implementations
  add it, you may be surprised it’s not in the official spec. So leaving it out would cause 

>   too much confusion. Note that `console log`’s exact behavior is up to the host program; display 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  too much confusion. Note that `console.log`’s exact behavior is up to the host program; display 
```

>   to the operator is not guaranteed. Also, it is difficult at best to write to `process.stdout` and
>   so that should not be done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to the operator is not guaranteed. Use the console for debug information only. The console is not obliged to write to the POSIX standard output and is a poor substitute for expressly threading that capability into a compartment.
```

Author: I've put the whole thing in for now, but do our developers need to know the info either in all of the second sentence (The console is not...) or the second part (is a poor substitute)? It feels a little deep for users as opposed to internal devs?

Reviewer: We can omit “is a poor substitute” and beyond.

- `lockdown()` and `harden()` both freeze an object’s API surface (enumerable data properties). 
  A hardened object’s properties cannot be changed, only read, so the only way to interact with a 
  hardened object is through its methods. `harden()` is similar to `Object.freeze()` but more 
  thorough. See the individual [`lockdown()`](#lockdown) and [`harden()`](#harden) sections
  below. 

- `HandledPromise` is also a global. 
  The [`E` wrapper (`E(target).method-name(args)`)](https://agoric.com/documentation/distributed-programming.html#communicating-with-remote-objects-using-e) 
  can be imported as `import { E } from '@agoric/eventual-send`. These two are defined by the 
  TC39 [Eventual-Send Proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-eventual-send). In addition, "tildot" syntax (`target~.methodname(args)`) 

>   is expanded as the code is first bundled, so it can be used (but not inside `eval()` calls or new compartments).

Reviewer: non-ses

- `Compartment` (a [part of SES](https://github.com/Agoric/SES-shim/tree/SES-v0.8.0/packages/ses#compartment)) is 
  a global. Code runs inside a `Compartment` and can create sub-compartments to host other 
  code (with different globals or transforms).

>   Note that these child compartments get `harden` and `Compartment`, but you have to explicitly 
>   provide any other JS additions (including `console` and `HandledPromise`) as “endowments” since 
>   they won’t be present otherwise. If the parent compartment is metered, its child compartments 
>   are always metered too. Child compartments will *not* be frozen by default: 
>   see [Frozen globalThis](#frozen-globalthis) below for details.

Reviewer: remove some non-ses:

```suggestion
  Note that these child compartments get `harden` and `Compartment`.
```

As SES is on the JavaScript standards track, the above anticipates additional proposed standard-track 
features. If those features become standards, future JavaScript environments will include them as global 
objects. So the current SES shim also makes those global objects available.

## Realms

JavaScript code runs in the context of 
a [*Realm*](https://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/10.0/index.html#sec-code-realms). A 
realm is the set of *primordials* (objects and functions of the standard library 
like `Array.prototype.push`) and a global object. In a web browser, an iframe is a realm. 
In Node.js, a Node process is a realm.

For historical reasons, the ECMAScript specification requires the *primordials*
to be mutable (`Array.prototype.push = yourFunction` is valid ECMAScript but not 

> recommended). With SES you can turn the current realm into an *immutable realm*; 
> a realm within which the primordials are deeply frozen. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recommended). By using the SES shim and calling `lockdown()`, you can turn the current realm into an *immutable realm*; 
a realm within which the primordials are deeply frozen. 
```

SES also lets programs create *Compartments*. These are "mini-realms".
A Compartment has its own dedicated global object and environment, but 
it inherits the primordials from their parent realm. Components are described
in detail in the next section. 

Agoric deploy scripts and smart contract code run in an immutable
realm with Compartments providing just enough authority to create
useful and secure contracts. But not enough authority to do anything

> unintended or harmful to the participants of the smart contract. 

Reviewer: This could be an Agoric-specific aside.

Compartments can be linked, so one compartment can export a module that another compartment
imports. Each compartment may have its own rules for how to resolve import specifiers and 
how to locate and retrieve modules. In this example, we use the compartment constructor to 
create two compartments: one for the application and another for its dependency.

**tyg todo: Will people understand this code or do we need to explain any/all methods in it
in more detail**

```js
const dependency = new Compartment({}, {}, {
  resolveHook: (moduleSpecifier, moduleReferrer) =>
    resolve(moduleSpecifier, moduleReferrer),
  importHook: async moduleSpecifier => {
    const moduleLocation = locate(moduleSpecifier);
    const moduleText = await retrieve(moduleLocation);
    return new ModuleStaticRecord(moduleText, moduleLocation);
  },
});
const application = new Compartment({}, {
  'dependency': dependency.module('./main.js'),
}, {
  resolveHook,
  importHook,
});
```

Compartments greatly simplify using SES for large applications. We will build tools that use 
compartments to load and bundle existing libraries and then execute them with a compartment

> for each package. **tyg todo Has this happened? If so, where/what are the tools? If not, any ETA?**

Reviewer: This material was good for the blog but we should just omit it from the guide. This will be Endo.

This will provide a seamless experience as simple as <script src=“app.js”> or node app.js, but 
with the safety of SES.
  
**tyg todo: My problem with this section is that while I think I understand what compartments are
and what they do, I'm not clear on just how/when they are used. This (and the SES reference) could
use what amounts to a paragraph or two like "When writing a contract, you use compartments like this. 
This is when you want to create a compartment. This is when you don't want to. Do you ever destroy a

> compartment? If so, how?**

Reviewer: Compartments provide a low-level loader API for JavaScript modules. Your code might run in compartments, but they are an implementation detail of tools and runtimes.

The Agoric runtime uses compartments to isolate contracts within a Vat. MetaMask’s LavaMoat uses a Compartment for every module, to create boundaries between application code and third-party dependencies.

The lifetime of a compartment is bounded by garbage collection and the lifetime of the realm that contains them. There is no ceremony for tearing down a compartment.

Author: Changed last sentence to "You will not ever have to tear
down or delete one. " Is that OK?

Author: Is each compartment automatically a separate vat?

Reviewer: Vats use compartments and can use multiple compartments. Compartments are not vats.

Reviewer: Please let me know if you need further clarifications to settle this section.

to them, and so forth.

When you freeze an object via `harden()`, it ensures any external callers 
can only interact with it through functions in the object’s API. `harden()` 
is an enhanced transitive version of `Object.freeze()`, which only locks up an 
object's own properties.

All objects that are transferred across a trust boundary must have their API
surface frozen, usually by calling `harden()`. This ensures other objects can 
only interact with them through their defined method interface. *CapTP*, our 
communications layer for passing references to distributed objects, enforces 
this at vat boundaries.

The general rule is that if you make a new object and give it to someone else 
(and don't immediately forget it yourself), you should give them `harden(obj)` 
instead of the raw object. This prevents someone from adding/deleting the properties
or prototypes of that object. Being hardened doesn't preclude an object from having 
access to mutable state (`harden(new Map())` still behaves like a normal mutable `Map`), 
but it means their methods stay the same and can't be surprisingly changed by someone else

> Defined objects (`mint`, `issuer`, `zcf`, etc.) shouldn't need hardening as their 
> constructors should do that work. It's mainly records, callbacks, and ephemeral 
> objects that need hardening.

Reviewer: This could be a breakout using the Agoric environment as an example of uses for `harden`. Would need to rework this to make that clear:
```suggestion
For example, the Agoric programming environment for smart contracts defines objects (`mint`, `issuer`, `zcf`, etc.) that shouldn't need hardening as their 
constructors should do that work. It's mainly records, callbacks, and ephemeral 
objects that need hardening.
```

You can send a message to a hardened object. If it's a record, you can access 

> its properties and their values.

Reviewer: This is out-of-place since we aren’t discussing eventual-send.

Author: No, but shouldn't they know what's possible to do with a hardened object?

Reviewer: I’ll buy it, but it’s like “frozen turkeys are also a munition”. The fact might be more useful in the documentation of eventual send / handled promise in the Agoric environment.

`harden()` is automatically provided by SES. Any code that will run inside a vat or a 
contract can use harden as a global, without importing anything.

Tip: If your text editor/IDE complains about `harden()` not being defined or imported, 
try adding `/* global harden */` to the top of the file.

You use `harden()` like this:
```js
const o = {a: 2};
o.a  = 12;
console.log(o.a); // 12 because o is still mutable
harden(o);
o.a  = 37; // throws a TypeError because o is now hardened

> ```

Reviewer: Is it possible to make this a breakout? Perhaps with Markdown’s `>`?

Author: Unless it's very long, my recollection is that most of Agoric Eng said they didn't like the compact/breakout style for docs (by "breakout" I think you mean "compact down to one line when you turn an arrow one way, fully expanding when you turn it the other" Did you mean something else?

> Tip: If your text editor/IDE complains about `harden()` not being defined or imported, 
> try adding `/* global harden */` to the top of the file.
> 
> You use `harden()` like this:
> ```js
> const o = {a: 2};
> o.a  = 12;
> console.log(o.a); // 12 because o is still mutable
> harden(o);
> o.a  = 37; // throws a TypeError because o is now hardened
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Tip: If your text editor/IDE complains about `harden()` not being defined or imported, 
> try adding `/* global harden */` to the top of the file.
>
> You use `harden()` like this:
> ```js
> const o = {a: 2};
> o.a  = 12;
> console.log(o.a); // 12 because o is still mutable
> harden(o);
> o.a  = 37; // throws a TypeError because o is now hardened
> ```
```

See the preview for the effect. There would be no [disclosure button](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/macos/buttons/disclosure-controls/).

## `lockdown()` and `harden()`

`lockdown()` and `harden()` essentially do the same thing; freeze objects so their 
properties cannot be changed. The only way to interact with frozen objects is through 
their methods. Their differences are what objects you use them on, and when you use them.

`lockdown()` **must** be called first. It hardens JavaScript's built-in *primordials* 
(implicitly shared global objects) and enables `harden()`. If you call `harden()` 
before `lockdown()` excutes, it throws an error.

`lockdown()` works on objects created by the JavaScript language itself as part of 
its definition. Use `harden()` to freeze objects created after `lockdown()`was called;

> i.e. objects created by programs written in JavaScript.

Reviewer: This appears to be a duplicate in this document.

Author: Not sure what you mean? Some information's repeated here to make clear what the differences between lockdown and harden, but just enough to make clear how they are different and when to use one or the other?
